Now that you have built a model and evaluate it,
it's time to conduct a demographic bias analysis.
This is very important in health care as we need to
ensure a model is not only accurate and precise,
but unbiased as well.
You will be able to use Aequitas to address group bias in fairness disparity.
So why is bias in models important to consider?
I want to bring up a few reasons to consider assessing bias for models.
It's important to know that buys with models can also restrict or limit
access to key medical benefits from government aid programs.
Examples of programs using AI algorithms to help
automate approvals of key government benefits is becoming more and more commonplace.
Another reason that you want to consider bias in models
is that in order to create better treatments for patients,
we need to find better ways to select and recruit
patients that represent the wider population that a drug would be targeted for.
In many cases, there may be systemic biases for key groups.
While this can not always be prevented,
bringing awareness of limitations and biases can give
a more accurate picture of a treatments effectiveness across different demographics.
In this example, we can see that
the purple parallelogram is representative of the population,
but the blue circles and triangles are not and both are over represented in the trial.
We usually associate bias with a negative connotation.
But biases, as we have learned with our models,
can be a source of valuable prior information.
The problem can be when we are not aware of our biases and do not account for
key ones that have significant impact on the populations these models serve.
The word unintended biases is a term that we will introduce to represent
the unconscious or unintentional biases
that come with the AI models that we are building.
Becoming more aware of these biases and how they impact different groups is key.
So a project that I want to introduce you to that is working to
address these unintended biases is a project called Aequitas,
that's being developed by University of Chicago's Data Science for Social Good group,
to address concerns about unintended bias unfairly affecting certain groups.
They developed this framework to start the discussion on
definitions and metrics to consider when building predictive models.
We will go over more details on how to actually use this framework soon.